Introduction to Amazon EC2:

- Amazon EC2, which is also known as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, provides resizable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS)
- It is a simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction.
- It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.
- EC2 is the core service of AWS cloud platform and launched in 2006
- These are the virtual servers, also called as an instances we can use these instances pay per use basis.



Benefits of using AWS EC2?
- Easier and Faster - Amazon EC2 reduces the time
required to obtain and boot new server instances to
minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up
and down, as your computing requirements change.
- Elastic and Scalable – Quickly add and subtract
resources to applications to meet customer demand
and manage costs. Avoid provisioning resources upfront
for projects with variable consumption rates or
short lifetimes.
- High Availability – Amazon EC2 provides developers the
tools to build failure resilient applications and isolate
themselves from common failure scenarios.
- Cost-Effective – Consume only the amount of compute,
storage and other IT resources needed. No long-term
commitment, minimum spend or up-front investment is
required.


EC2 Pricing Model
• Free Usage Tier
• On-Demand Instances
– Start and stop instances whenever you like, costs are rounded up to the nearest hour. (Worst price)
• Reserved Instances
– Pay up front for one/three years in advance. (Best price)
– Unused instances can be sold on a secondary market.
• Spot Instances
– Specify the price you are willing to pay, and instances get started and stopped without any warning as the marked changes. (Kind of like Condor!)
– Dedicated Instances
- Charge for instance


Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable
compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for
developers.
The Amazon EC2 simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with
minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets
you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required
to obtain and boot new server instances (called Amazon EC2 instances) to minutes, allowing
you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.
Amazon EC2 changes the economics of computing by allowing you to pay only for capacity that
you actually use. Amazon EC2 provides developers and system administrators the tools to
build failure resilient applications and isolate themselves from common failure scenarios.


STEPS TO CREATE EC2: WINDOWS

1. Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
2. Choose Instance Type
3. Configure Instance
4. Add Storage
5. Add Tags
6. Configure Security Group
7. Review
8. Launch the Instance.

login into the remote machine, using the public IP
user : Administrator
Pwd: decrypted PEM FILE.

STEPS TO CREATE EC2: Linux - Amazon Linux

1. Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
2. Choose Instance Type
3. Configure Instance
4. Add Storage
5. Add Tags
6. Configure Security Group
7. Review
8. Launch the Instance.
9. PEM file generation
10. upload the Pem file and generate a public ket using PUTTYGEN tool.
11. u will .ppk file.

login in the putty with the public ip address.
upoad the ppk file in the auth.
user : ec2-user
sudo su - root
install the apache: yum install httpd -y
start the apache: service httpd start
lauch the IP address in the browser to check the apache running.

 then download the static files from any free templates.
put the file into the path - /var/www/html with full permission for the folder and the files.


hit the ip address of the EC2.. application's static page will be available.



